#CPU Scheduling Algorithms

##Generating Distributions

###Inter-Arrival Time
The Inter-Arrival Time was generated as an exponential random variable with MEAN = (1/LAMBDA) = 5
This is because we are considering values only within ( 0 and 10 ) , and discarding other values ( > 10 )
The value of MEAN = 5 provides us with a probability of 86.46% that the value we get is within our range
and also a probability of 2.70% that we get a value of 10
We could have taken smaller values of MEAN , say = 2 which gives us a acceptance percentage of 99.32% but then 
80% values would lie between [0,3.2] which would be a very skew distribution.
Hence we choose an optimal values of 5 which has a decently high acceptance ratio and also a less skewed distribution. 
We generate exp( MEAN=5 ) ~ [-(MEAN=5) x ln(U(0,1))] where U(0,1) ~ rand()/RAND_MAX 

###Burst Times
The Burst Times are simply generated by U(1,20) ~ [(rand()/RAND_MAX) x (20-1) + 1]  

##The Scheduling Algorithms 

###1.) FCFS ( First Come, First Served )
This is a non pre-emptive process scheduling algorithm which as the name suggests, chooses processes to execute
simply on the basis of their arrival times, the process which arrives first is executed first. 
This is a very simple strategy, yet it is not the best in terms of optimising the Waiting or Average Turnaround times since a very long process which arrived earlier may inhibit the processing of multiple other smaller processes which arrived, maybe just after it. 

###2.) Non Pre-Emptive SJF ( Shortest Job First )
As the name goes, this is a non pre-emptive process scheduling algorithm which at each instant when the CPU is ready to take a new process, chooses the 'Shortest Job' currently in the ready state. Since the strategy is non pre-emptive, a process once chosen is executed completely before the CPU becomes available for the next process(es).
This Algorithm is the most OPTIMAL Non Pre-Emptive Algorithm when it comes to minimising the Waiting Times for the processes. 

###3.) Pre-Emptive SJF ( Shortest Job First )
As the name goes, this is a pre-emptive process scheduling algorithm which at each instant when the CPU is ready to take a new process, chooses the 'Shortest Job' currently in the ready state. Here, since the strategy is pre-emptive, a process once chosen is executed till the CPU detects a trigger caused by the arrival of a new process. The Job Processing stops and the Current-Job is updated with its remaining burst time. The CPU again makes a choice and continues processing jobs in this way. 

###4.) Round Robin 
This is a scheduling algorithm which is similar to FCFS in the sense that it executes processes in the order of their arrival, however it only processes them for a time quantum = DELTA. After DELTA time has elapsed or the job at hand has finished, the next job in the sequence is processed. Once it has no more processes left 'after' the current process, it loops back to the start to see if there are any earlier processes READY for execution.

###5.) Highest Response Ratio Next
The Response Ratio of a process is defined as ~ RR = 1 + ( Waiting Time ) / Burst Time 
This is a Non Pre-Emptive Process Scheduling Algorithm which at each instant when the CPU is ready to take a new process, choose the job with the 'Highest Response Ratio' currently in the ready state. Since the strategy is non pre-emptive, a process once chosen is executed completely before the CPU becomes available for the next process(es). 
The waiting time for every waiting process increases by the same value, but it is the Burst Time which determines the rate of growth of the Response Ratio. A Process with a smaller Burst Values will rise quickly as compared to a Process with a larger Burst value. Hence in a way, shorter the job ; earlier it will be executed.


## Plot Analysis 
As we can observe from the plot, the ATN for RoundRobin is the Highest, followed by FCFS and then by HRN Strategies. The next comes Non Pre-Emptive SJF which is almost coincident on the Pre-Emptive SJF Graph indicating that these two are the best scheduling strategies, be with Non Pre-Emptive or Pre-Emptive.  

Since the Average Turnaround Time is simply concerned with the Finishing Time of a Process, Round Robin Scheduling is bound to have a Huge ATN since all the processes are scheduled for short amounts of time (DELTA) and hence finish way at the end. Then why do we use the Round Robin Scheduling Algorithm ?? Well, Round Robin Scheduling minimises what we call the Response Time of the System, which is the Time between Scheduling of a Process and when it is first catered to. Hence Round Robin is used in interactive Systems when response to user is required to be quick. 

Moreover, in general the PreEmptive SJF has a better performance as compared to a Non PreEmptive SJF since at each instance, the Shortest Burst Next is being Processed. In case of Non PreEmptive, in the event of the incoming of a Shorter Job, the current job is, well, no longer the Shortest Burst. Hence it becomes Sub-Optimal in such situations. 

